\chapter{Preface}

This book is my latest attempt at writing a grammar of Ayeri, a fictional
language (or \emph{conlang}) which I have been developing since December
2003. Getting to work on grammar writing again was triggered in the summer of
2016 by a growing dissatisfaction with not having a central place of
documentation when the first thing people were looking for on my website was
often the previous iteration of the \tit{Ayeri Grammar}, incomplete as well as
partially inaccurate and outdated as it may have been at that point. In
addition to that, there was a class on fictional languages taught at the
University of Tübingen, Germany, that summer \autocite{buch2016ss}. Ayeri was
one of the languages chosen for students to explore and evaluate.

The student group who worked on Ayeri came to the conclusion that its
documentation was severely lacking in the description of basic facts, seeing as
whole chapters of the grammar had been missing at the time
(\cite[12]{boga2016}). However, while the formal documentation of Ayeri's
grammar was lying dormant between 2011 and 2016, I wrote a number of blog
articles detailing various grammatical issues \autocite[Blog]{benung}.%
\footnote{\xayr{kuːtnsF/IknF}{Kutānas-ikan}{thanks a lot} to Bella Boga, Madita
Breuninger, Thora Daneyko, and Martina Stama-Kirr for their hard work on making
sense of my published materials in spite of information being scattered all
over the place, as well as their providing me with the presentation concluding
their group work.} These articles have finally been taken into consideration
here.

This book is not merely a filling-in of blanks in previous documentation,
though, but was written from scratch for the most part. This goes especially
for the syntax chapter, which finally gave me an opportunity to begin
acquainting myself with this field. With this book, you are holding the result
of two years of hard work in your hands. I hope you will have as much joy
reading it as I had researching it.

\begin{flushright}\itshape\footnotesize
\DTMsavenow{currentdate}
Carsten Becker, \DTMenglishmonthname{\DTMfetchmonth{currentdate}} \the\year
\end{flushright}
